 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 320 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-02-20 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. https://www.npr.org/2023/10/20/1206301577/biden-ukraine-israel-congress-funding-request T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. President Biden has asked lawmakers for almost $106 billion in funding for Israel, Ukraine, countering China in the Indo-Pacific, and operations on the southern U. S. border. The fate of the request rests in the hands of Congress, where many Republicans in the House of Representatives want to rein in government spending, particularly on support for Ukraine. Here's how the request breaks down. Biden has pledged to back Ukraine "as long as it takes" in its fight against Russia, now into its 20th month with no end in sight. Congress approved more than $112 billion in aid for Ukraine in 2022, but the White House has said that money has almost run out. Earlier this fall, Biden asked for $24 billion to get Ukraine through December, with most of the money going to military aid. This new request is designed to last through September 2024. It includes weapons, equipment, support for U. S. troops in Europe and economic support for Ukraine's government. In Tel Aviv, Biden promised an "unprecedented" package of aid to support Israel after the Hamas attacks of Oct. 7. The request includes funding for air and missile defense, military financing and embassy support. This includes support for Israel, Gaza and Ukraine. The breakdown of this funding is "flexible," White House budget director Shalanda Young told reporters, depending on where the need is greatest. This will provide support to "multiple countries" in the region, national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters. A breakdown was not immediately available. Senate Republicans — including Leader Mitch McConnell — have said they want to make sure Taiwan, a self-governing island that China claims as its own territory, can deter Beijing from attacking. Materials provided to reporters did not specifically mention Taiwan. The request includes money for U. S. shipyards that build attack submarines, and $2 billion for the World Bank to provide alternatives to China's Belt and Road lending to developing countries. Earlier this year, the White House asked for but did not receive $4 billion to help deal with fentanyl trafficking and provide help to migrants at the southern U. S. border. This new request is broader and includes money for detention facilities, border agents, asylum officers and state and local governments struggling to provide services to migrants. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 