 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1965 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-03-26 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Border Force response to Hamas attack victims probed T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Claims survivors of the 7 October Hamas attack on Israel faced discrimination at Manchester Airport are being investigated, the government has said. The Jewish Representative Council for Greater Manchester said two Israeli nationals had "faced aggressive questioning" by UK Border Force officials at the airport on Sunday. The council alleged the Nova Music Festival victims were discriminated against "because they are Israeli". The Home Office has launched a review. About 1,200 people were killed when Hamas stormed across Gaza's border into Israel on 7 October in coordinated attacks. Those killed included children, the elderly and 364 young people at a music festival. The council said two survivors "had been invited to share their experiences with the Jewish community in Manchester". In a letter posted on X, the council wrote: "Upon arrival, when Border Patrol noticed they were travelling with Israeli passports, they were asked why they had come to Manchester. "They were informed that they would need to be questioned. "The only reason for their detention and interrogation was because they are Israeli. "The council said the men were detained for two hours, and that it was in possession of a video showing a male officer "speaking in aggressive terms" and in a "demeaning" tone to them. When released, an officer said they "had to make sure that you are not going to do what you are doing in Gaza over here", the letter alleged. The Jewish Representative Council for Greater Manchester said it wanted "assurances that ensure passengers with Israeli passports are able to travel without discrimination". It thanked Manchester Airport for immediately acknowledging and recognising "the severity of the allegations contained within our correspondence," and called on Home Secretary James Cleverly and the Home Office to take up the issue urgently.   Mr Cleverly replied on the social media platform: "We are investigating this. "We do not tolerate antisemitism or any form of discrimination. "This incident will be handled in line with our disciplinary procedures. "A Home Office spokesperson said: "We are aware of the complaint made against Border Force staff at Manchester Airport and are investigating these claims. "While the facts and circumstances are being established, it must be reiterated that we do not tolerate antisemitism, in any forms, anywhere. " Manchester Airport said it was in touch with the Home Office. More than 28,000 Palestinians have been killed, and tens of thousands injured by Israeli strikes since the start of the war, according to Gaza's Hamas-run health ministry. It says most were women and children. Why not follow BBC Manchester on Facebook, external, X, external and Instagram, external? You can also send story ideas to northwest. newsonline@bbc. co. uk T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 