 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2083 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-05-22 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Funeral held of UK aid worker killed in Gaza T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. The funeral of an aid worker killed in an air strike in Gaza has taken place in Cornwall. Jim Henderson, 33, was among seven aid workers who died in the Israeli attack in April. One of his brothers, Matt, said: "He's achieved so much in his life in a short period of time. "Cousin, Helen Moran, spoke on behalf of Mr Henderson's parents and thanked the hundreds of people who gathered to pay their respects at Truro Cathedral. Ms Moran said: "The family has been deeply moved by the outpouring of support during this difficult time. "This support has been a source of comfort and a reminder of the impact Jim had upon so many people. "A son, a fiance, a brother and a friend, leaving us at such a young age is always a tragedy. "To lose someone of James's extraordinary character and decency overshadows the pain. "About 700 people attended his funeral. Several bearers of Mr Henderson's coffin were in the Royal Marines 40 Commando unit with him and paid tribute before the service began at 12:00 BST. Jordan McGrath worked alongside Mr Henderson in a counter-insurgency operation in Afghanistan in 2012. He said: "You could always look to Jim for reassurance or strength if you needed it. He was a real pillar of the troop. "It was brilliant to know you've got guys like Jim with you. "He was incredible. He just embodied what it meant to be a Royal Marine Commando - courage, determination, unselfishness. "Andrew Campbell was also deployed to Afghanistan with Mr Henderson. He said: "Jim had the heart of a warrior, the soul of a humanitarian. "It was in his nature to help people who couldn't help themselves. " Daniel Christopher Birks, who trained Mr Henderson in 2010 and led the troop he was assigned to in Afghanistan, said: "He was such a tower of strength, kind of like the model recruit. "Mr Henderson's role as a security adviser for the World Central Kitchen was to ensure an aid convoy travelling in Gaza followed safety procedures and remained on the correct route. The former Royal Marine had been in Gaza for just over a week. Mr Henderson's brother Dan said: "I don't really think we knew how wide a scope of Jim's friends and people that he had real connections with until something like this happens. . . It makes us very proud. "The family had asked people who wanted to pay their respects to line the route and join them in the cathedral. Bishop Hugh Nelson said the service marked a farewell and "the celebration of a good life well-lived". Childhood friend Harry-James Mills described Mr Henderson as "a force to be reckoned with, an absolute warrior, an incredible friend". "Although we bid farewell to you let us take solace in knowing that you will never truly leave us for as long as we carry you in our hearts. "You will always be by our sides. "James Henderson - our friend, our brother, our hero - you will live on, and your legacy will forever shine bright. "Rest in peace, dear friend, we will never forget you. " Follow BBC Cornwall on X (formerly Twitter), external, Facebook, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc. co. uk, external. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 