 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2520 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-03-14 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Pride event scraps 'controversial' Eurovision theme T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A Pride event has pulled its Eurovision theme amid controversy over Israel's involvement with the 2024 song contest. Bourne Free's Pride Festival is due to take place on 5 and 6 July in Bournemouth, Dorset. But organisers said they had scrapped the theme in light of the Israel-Gaza war - and the Eurovision Song Contest's decision not to remove Israel from the competition. Eurovision has been approached for comment. Israel's original Eurovision 2024 entry was rejected by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) because of its perceived political overtones. Eden Golan will now sing Hurricane, a rewritten version of October Rain, which was thought to reference the 7 October Hamas attacks on Israel. Bourne Free organisers Dawn Lewis and Jack Cannon said the Eurovision-inspired theme was intended to celebrate diversity and inclusion at the LGBTQ+ event. But a public vote on social media in January prompted the co-chairs to reassess. "In light of the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas, and the Eurovision Song Contest's decision not to remove Israel from the competition despite calls to do so, we have made the difficult decision to remove Eurovision as our theme for Pride this year," they said. "As a charity committed to promoting equality and human rights, we cannot in good conscience align ourselves with an event that has sparked controversy and division within our community. "The pair said their decision was "not a statement against the people of Israel", nor any act participating in Eurovision. They went on: "It is a reflection of our commitment to standing in solidarity with marginalised communities and promoting peace and understanding. "A new theme for the Pride event is yet to be revealed. Follow BBC South on Facebook, external, X, external, or Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to south. newsonline@bbc. co. uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240, external. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 