 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1997 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-02-26 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Charlotte Church defends using pro-Palestinian chant T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Charlotte Church says she is "in no way antisemitic" after being criticised for taking part in a controversial pro-Palestinian chant. The singer faced backlash after she led a 100-strong choir in a rendition of From the River to the Sea at a concert. It references the land between the River Jordan, bordering the occupied West Bank and Israel in the east, to the Mediterranean Sea in the west. Critics say it calls for the destruction of the state of Israel. The Palestine Solidarity Campaign and other activists contest this, saying the slogan refers to "the right of all Palestinians to freedom, equality and justice". Broadcasting live on Instagram on Monday, Church addressed "alarmist" reports relating to the event. She said: "Just to clarify my intentions there, I am in no way antisemitic. I am fighting for the liberation of all people. I have a deep heart for all religions and all difference. "It was a beautiful, beautiful event. But unfortunately the powers that be can't have that. [They] can't have such a powerful symbol of resistance as what we worked towards on Saturday. " Charlotte Church coaches young carers' choirBBC building graffitied during Palestine protest Church confirmed the gig had ended with a chant of the words "from the river to the sea, Palestine will be free". She said: "Clearly, if you know the history of it all, [it is] not an antisemitic chant calling for the obliteration of Israel. It is not that in any way shape or form. It is calling for the peaceful coexistence of Israelis and Palestinians. "Church said "lots of other beautiful songs… of liberation and freedom" were performed at the event, including Arabic songs, Welsh songs, and South African songs from the anti-Apartheid movement, "the lyrics of which were adapted to the situation in Palestine". The Campaign Against Antisemitism has previously said the "River to the Sea" chant is deeply offensive and threatening. It accused the singer of "anti-Jewish racism" and has called for the Charity Commission to investigate. Rabbi Dr Jonathan Romain MBE said on X: "Dear Charlotte Church: Let me translate for you - when you say 'From the river to the sea' it means expelling Jews from the Jordan to the Mediterranean i. e. from the Land of Israel entirely & destroying a nation. "However, the Jewish Voice for Peace (JVP), a US group which calls itself a "progressive Jewish anti-Zionist" organisation, includes a version of the chant in its mission statement: "We picture Palestinians — from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean Sea — living with their inalienable rights respected. "Church has not shied away from expressing her political views since the outbreak of the Israel-Gaza war. Last month, in a statement posted to X, external, formerly known as Twitter, she said she was "in tears daily" over the situation and felt she must "do more to organise, resist, oppose, fight like a lioness" for the Palestinians. The event took place on Saturday, 24 February at Bedwas Workmen's Hall, Caerphilly county, to raise money for Middle East Children's Alliance, which supports children in Gaza. Church was joined by Palestine Solidarity Cymru and 100 singers. Church has been contacted for comment. Why are Israel and Hamas fighting in Gaza?Gaza Strip in maps: How life has changed in four monthsIsrael mulls ceasefire plan as progress reported T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 