 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2624 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-05-30 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Three arrests after Gaza war protests at university T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Three arrests have been made after people protested against the war in Gaza in a university and city centre. A group of students barricaded themselves inside a Newcastle University building on Wednesday. Northumbria Police said a number of protesters refused to comply with its instructions and caused "considerable disruption" in the city centre later that evening. Two men in their 20s were arrested in connection with public order offences and a man in his 60s was arrested for breach of the peace. The protesters occupied the Armstrong Building for about five hours. Police were called at about 16:10 BST and a spokesman said they had engaged with "all parties". A spokesman said: "While the activity mainly passed without incident, a number of protesters outside the building refused to comply with police instruction and seemed intent on gaining entry. "Later that evening, some protesters moved on to other parts of the city centre – causing considerable disruption. " The men arrested for public order offences were still in custody, police said, while the other man was released. The force added: "As a force, we uphold the right to peaceful protest. However, if any criminal offences are committed, then those responsible can expect to be dealt with appropriately. " About 50 people occupied the Queen Victoria Road building, with about 100 gathered outside on Wednesday afternoon. The Newcastle Coalition Apartheid Off Campus group said at the time it had escalated its action after four weeks of peaceful protest. The protesters had called on the university to cut ties with defence companies and Israeli universities, and for it to call for an "immediate, unconditional and permanent ceasefire in Gaza". The university said unauthorised occupation would be treated as trespass and any students identified would face disciplinary action. The Union of Jewish Students said Jewish students in the city had received "abuse" since the encampment began. "We call on the university leadership to ensure Jewish students can study in safety on campus," a spokesperson added. The protest is one of a number of pro-Palestinian demonstrations taking place at universities around the UK, including Manchester, Leeds, and Goldsmiths in London. They followed on from similar protests in the US, where more than 1,000 people have been arrested during demonstrations. Follow BBC Newcastle on X (formerly Twitter), external, Facebook, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc. co. uk. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 