 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1974 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-14 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Boycott of Downing Street Eid celebration planned T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Some Conservative politicians as well as business and charity leaders have said they will boycott the government's Eid event over its support of Israel. The annual event, hosted by Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, is set to take place in Downing Street on Monday. The BBC understands some invitees will not go in protest of Israel's military action in Gaza. A government spokesperson said it understood humanitarian concerns regarding Gaza. Sources in Downing Street have privately expressed concern at the number of people who might boycott the reception.  The BBC understands Baroness Warsi is one of the Conservative politicians planning to boycott the event, along with at least two Tory MPs. She quit as Foreign Office Minister in David Cameron's cabinet in 2014, saying the government's policy over Gaza was "morally indefensible". Asif Ansari, a leading businessman and charity fundraiser, said: "As a Muslim, I think it's very important for the Muslim community to have good relations with the British government. "However, I feel very, very strongly this year with the position that the British government is taking. "They are supporting Israel who stand accused of genocide, they stand accused of war crimes, the deprivation of water and food to women and children has left many starving and lastly, the killing of three British aid workers - after which Lord Cameron has said the UK would continue to supply arms to Israel - was an absolute red line. "  One person from a charity who has decided to attend, said they were going because "I believe it is important to engage with the government at this time of conflict". Earlier this month the prime minister faced growing pressure over UK arms sales to Israel, after the killing of seven aid workers by an Israeli strike in Gaza. At the time he said the UK had a "very careful" arms licensing regime and Foreign Secretary Lord Cameron later confirmed UK arms sales to Israel would not be suspended. Israel has justified its actions based on the Hamas attacks on 7 October, which Israeli officials say killed about 1,200 people.  A similar event held during Ramadan hosted by President Biden was subjected to a boycott of the White House earlier this month by those protesting US support for Israel. A No10 spokesperson said: "The prime minister looks forward to welcoming members of the Muslim community to the Eid reception in Downing Street later this week and celebrating their contribution to public life. "But we share the deep concern that many British Muslims have over the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and our priority has always been to prevent further escalation in the region. "That's why we have long called for an immediate humanitarian pause with progress towards a sustainable ceasefire, and consistently urged Israel and all parties to the conflict to abide by International Humanitarian Law. "Additional reporting: Rachael McMenemy Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, external, X, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to hello. bbclondon@bbc. co. uk, external T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 