 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2153 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-05-11 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Group honours children killed in Israel-Gaza conflict T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A group of women have created an installation of clothes in memory of the children killed in the ongoing conflict between Israel and Gaza. It has been placed in Swindon, outside local MP Justin Tomlinson's office, following his vote against a ceasefire, external. Each item of clothing represents a child who has lost their life in the conflict which began last year. Kate Claxton, from the group said: “It’s so important that we open our eyes and we don’t turn away from this. ” Israel launched its operations in Gaza following an attack by Hamas on southern Israel on 7 October, during which about 1,200 people were killed and more than 240 others taken hostage. As of February, the Hamas-run health ministry said more than 30,000 Palestinians had been killed in Gaza. People around the world have been calling for an immediate ceasefire, which did not pass a vote by MPs in Parliament.  Ms Claxton said the "passionate" group is “desperate for people to listen and to help us call for a ceasefire". She added that the peaceful protest is politically neutral and designed to commemorate the "innocent lives" lost on both sides. “Some people feel slightly detached, and this is why we’re doing it," Ms Claxton said. “We realise it’s almost impossible to imagine the scale of these child deaths, so by making this big scene, by having this peaceful installation, we hope that the visuals of that many sets of clothing will bring things home to people who haven’t already urged their MPs and their communities for a ceasefire," she added. The clothing used in the installation will be passed onto other charitable causes Ms Claxton said. A candlelit vigil will be held and the installation will remain in place until 22:00 BST.  Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, external, X, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 