 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2013 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-04 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Council building sprayed in red paint over Israel firm link T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Protesters have been arrested after they sprayed a council headquarters in red paint and blocked the main entrance, over its links to Israeli arms firm Elbit. Two men and two women - one in her 70s - have been detained, police said. Somerset Council has previously agreed to sell a property near Bristol, which is currently occupied by Elbit Systems UK. It is the second time in the last few weeks Palestine Action has sprayed paint on Somerset's County Hall in protest. A council spokesperson said: "A further attack and criminal damage has been made against public property which will inevitably result in additional costs at the public expense. "We believe this incident relates to a legacy commercial investment which we have already agreed to dispose of. "The council agreed to sell off its commercial investments as part of its annual budget, which was approved by councillors in late-February, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service. One of those investments was the offices at Aztec West 600 on the outskirts of Bristol, where Elbit Systems UK is among the tenants. Elbit Systems, based in Israel, is a defence contractor which supplies the Israeli army with equipment. In a statement, Palestine Action said: "Residents have repeatedly disrupted council meetings to make it clear that simply disposing of the property does not absolve the council of their responsibility and demanded the public body terminate the lease before selling the freehold of the property. "Despite raising these concerns and lawyers highlighting a legal route for the council to evict Elbit from the premises, the council have failed to do so to date. "The council spokesperson added: "We have sought to engage protestors over their concerns but today's events show their preference to cause damage rather than engage in meaningful conversation. "While we respect the right of individuals and groups to protest, we strongly condemn this style of protest damaging a Grade II listed public building. " Avon and Somerset Police said officers had been called to the building just after 07:50 BST to find "significant damage". Officers arrested two men and two women just after 08:15 on suspicion of criminal damage. The four - aged in their 20s, 30s and 70s - were subsequently further arrested on suspicion of locking onto a person. They remain in police custody. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 