 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2187 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-03-11 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Higgins condemns 'propaganda' against UN over Gaza T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Ireland's president has condemned a "propaganda campaign" against the UN over Gaza as "a scandalous travesty". Michael D Higgins urged countries to follow Ireland's lead and increase aid funding to the UN aid agency for Palestinian refugees (UNRWA). Ireland last month pledged €20m (£17m) in support for UNRWA. Several countries, including the UK and US, paused funding for the relief agency while an investigation takes place after allegations emerged in January. The agency announced the sacking of several of its staff over allegations they were involved in the 7 October Hamas attacks, in which Palestinian militants killed around 1,200 Israelis and took an estimated 240 hostage. In January the UK government said it was "appalled" by Israel's allegations. Created in 1949, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, UNRWA, is the biggest UN agency operating in Gaza. It provides health care, education and other humanitarian aid to Palestinians in Gaza, the West Bank, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria. It employs about 13,000 people inside Gaza. UNRWA commissioner general Philippe Lazzarini said the aid agency had lost out on $450m (£359m) in the wake of the allegations. On Monday, as the Islamic holy month of Ramadan began, Mr Higgins urged every country to do "all in its power" to avoid the most extreme humanitarian disaster in Gaza. "The situation we are now witnessing in Gaza is one from which the global public must not be distracted or avert its gaze," he said in a statement. "It is a matter of life and death. "The blockading of food and aid must immediately be stopped. "Vital essential medicines and sources of energy must be provided to what is left of the hospitals in Gaza. "Aid that could be delivered immediately is scandalously being blocked and those responsible for doing so must take responsibility for the deaths that are ensuing. "Sweden and Canada have said they will resume aid payments to UNRWA. They were among 16 countries that paused funds after Israel accused at least 12 UNRWA staff of involvement in the 7 October attack by Hamas. The UN is investigating and France's foreign minister is leading a review. Mr Higgins said "recent decisions made by Canada and Sweden to rescind a previous decision and resume aid to UNRWA are to be welcomed, as is the recent announcement by the European Commission that it will immediately disburse €50m in funding". "Given the depth of what the people of Gaza are now facing, and what is so clear to all concerned, others should now follow such a lead," he added. Mr Higgins also urged UN countries to "take notice" of a statement by Mr Lazzarini, that there has been "little less than a campaign" against UNRWA. "It is a campaign which could have the effect of undermining the role of the UN in the present circumstances and in relation to the future of Gaza," Mr Higgins said. "His plea for help deserves the support of all who believe in the United Nations. "The releasing of a propaganda campaign against the United Nations is a scandalous travesty against the little less than heroic efforts of all those involved on the front line in Gaza - medical staff, those working to supply nutrition and aid in the most trying of circumstances, and those other dedicated professionals in UNRWA who have lost more than 160 of their colleagues. "He added: "It is time for the world to put an end to this loss of life, to remember our shared humanity, listen to the peacemakers and commit all of its efforts to bringing this crisis to an end and ensuring an appropriate long term settlement is reached. "Israel and the Palestinian group Hamas have been at war since early October. It began when Hamas gunmen launched an unprecedented attack on Israel from Gaza - the deadliest in Israel's history. An Israeli military campaign has followed, which has killed thousands in the Palestinian territory. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 