 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2244 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-03-13 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Irish SXSW festival boycott 'could be detrimental' T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. "It is going to be detrimental to them; they've managed to source serious funding for music showcasing. "Irish artists who have boycotted a major US music festival will have had to make a "huge decision", the chief executive of Oh Yeah Centre has said. All the artists scheduled to play an official Music From Ireland event at South by Southwest (SXSW) in Texas have now pulled out. It is in protest over the arts festival's sponsorship by the US army. The artists are critical of the army's support for Israel in the Gaza war. The festival, which runs until 16 March in the city of Austin, Texas, celebrates film, comedy and music and attracts more than 300,000 people each year. "It will have been a huge decision for the artists," Charlotte Dryden from Oh Yeah told BBC's Good Morning Ulster programme. "Probably once they were made aware [of the festival's sponsorship], their conscience and their ethics overtook any financial reasons. " She understands more than 60 UK acts have now pulled out of the festival. "It's a huge decision because for some of them it's the opportunity of a lifetime," she explained. "Most artists get out to [SXSW] one time. ""I think it makes it all the more admirable… collectively they've made a decision that they will not be complicit," Ms Dryden added. The Oh Yeah centre acts as a hub for Northern Irish music, providing rehearsal space, a recording studio and a venue for live music as well as a curated Spotify playlist of current local artists. Belfast punk band Enola Gay are among the acts boycotting the festival; instead choosing to play an 'Anti-SXSW Fest', organised alongside the Austin For Palestine Coalition. "Our schedule for our time in Austin has changed for the better," the band posted on social media. "We refuse to partake in SX while they run military events and panels displaying their new technology, such as AI and drones. " "Honestly its been developing so rapidly that it's still hard to wrap our heads around it," guitarist Joe McVeigh told BBC News NI as the band travelled to Austin. "All we know is that we made the right decision but there's still more work to be done. "He said, in hindsight, the band is not disappointed to be missing the full SXSW experience. "Had we went through with it and learnt what we know now we'd be mortified," he explained. Joe said it had been a difficult decision for some acts as they are tied to grants; however, his band was already on tour and paid its own expenses. "I don't know how they're going to work that out," he continued. Conchúr White, who grew up in Portadown, County Armagh, has also decided not to play the festival. Writing on social media, the musician said it had "taken a while to come to this point" as he weighed up "all the outcomes" for both himself and those who have support him. "I accepted a significant amount of money from PRS [for Music], an incredible organisation to help facilitate our performances," he said. "The financial implications for me, however, pale in comparison to the tragedies occurring in Gaza. I don't want to align myself with weapon manufacturers. "Mr White added he will "try to be more mindful moving forward". An Enterprise Ireland-led delegation is taking part in the arts festival, however, no bands will play the official Music From Ireland showcases. "To be clear, we, as Music From Ireland bands, will not be partaking in any official SXSW shows. We stand in complete solidarity with Palestine and others who have spoke out against, and boycotted SXSW," Dublin-based Gurriers posted on social media. Instead, in lieu of the planned showcase, the artists will be making a joint statement at the Velveeta Room on Thursday, and again at the Flamingo Canteena on Friday. The Irish culture minister, Catherine Martin, has defended attending the festival and said she will use the US trip as an opportunity to advocate for a ceasefire. "She outlined that she has the utmost respect for their freedom of expression as artists and reassured them that she will use every opportunity available to her to make clear her revulsion at the devastation that has been unleashed on Gaza," a government spokesperson said in a statement. In a statement shared on social media, Belfast band Kneecap said they cancelled their sets at the festival "in solidarity with the people of Palestine". They said they "cannot in good conscience" attend the event, even though pulling out would have "a significant financial impact" on the band. But they said it wasn't comparable to the "unimaginable suffering" in Gaza. Israel launched a campaign in the Gaza Strip after Hamas - the group which runs the territory and which the UK government says is a terrorist organisation - attacked Israel on 7 October, in which about 1,200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage. Why are Israel and Hamas fighting in Gaza? More than 30,000 people in Gaza have been killed since then, according to the Hamas-run health ministry. America is Israel's biggest military backer, providing billions of dollars in defence aid every year, and a number of weapons Israel is using in the conflict, including jets and bombs, are US-made. Kneecap was scheduled to play three sets at the festival. The decision not to partake was a "no brainer", band member Mo Chara told RTÉ's Morning Ireland programme. He said it "sends a very clear message that the Irish people will always be in solidarity with the Palestinian people". "If I know my fans like I think I do, I think they'll be very much supportive of our decision," he added. Londonderry singer Aoife Boyle, better known as Reevah, said she is going through a "complicated process of trying to figure out what we can do" after travelling to Texas for the festival. "The band and I arrived into Austin yesterday morning to see the news and we are feeling completely heartbroken," she wrote on Instagram. "As an artist from Derry we have and do stand in solidarity with Palestine, always. " Aoife said being in Austin was difficult for her and her band, "and the gravity and extent of the situation isn't fully visible through social media posts". The artists said they were unware prior to arriving that the US Army was affiliated with the festival. "We do not support or condone this. This is not in line with our views and beliefs," Aoife added. SXSW said it is an organisation that "welcomes diverse viewpoints" and it "fully respects the decision these artists made to exercise their right to free speech". "The Army's sponsorship is part of our commitment to bring forward ideas that shape our world. In regard to Collins Aerospace, they participated this year as a sponsor of two SXSW Pitch categories, giving entrepreneurs visibility and funding for potentially game-changing work," the festival said on X, formerly Twitter. , externalThe organisation said it will "continue to support human rights for all", adding the situation in the Middle East "is tragic". T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 