 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2078 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-06-13 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Freedom of speech talk disrupted by Gaza protest T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A university talk on freedom of speech was disrupted by Gaza war protesters. Masked protesters interrupted the talk last week at Northumbria University's inaugural Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) conference by chanting and holding baby clothes covered in fake blood. A member of staff, who did not wish to be named, said they felt "personally unsafe" during the protest. Northumbria University said safety of staff was its "highest priority" and action that disrupted the running of the university would not be "tolerated". The protests took place on Wednesday during a talk, external titled "How freedom of speech and academic freedom influence equality diversity and inclusion". The protesters entered the room as university deputy vice chancellor Tom Lawson was about to speak, according to a witness. Video footage filmed by an audience member shows the protesters standing at the front of the lecture hall while chanting: "Your hands are washed with Palestinian blood. " The protest was carried out by members of the Newcastle Apartheid Off Campus group, which has encamped outside Newcastle University. A spokesperson for the demonstrators said: "As a collective we decided to target and disrupt this event on the basis that these claimed ‘EDI’ values are incompatible with the university’s relationship with Lockheed Martin - the world's largest weapons manufacturer. " Security staff and officers from Northumbria Police attended the scene. The force said no arrests were made during the protest. The witness said there were about 10 protesters present at the event. "They were standing at the doors," they said. "They weren't blocking the door but it was unpleasant. " The talk was halted during the protest and continued in another lecture hall in the university's business school. Andy Long, the Northumbria University chief executive, sent an email to attendees the day after the talk offering "additional support" to staff members affected by the protest. The email read: "I know that colleagues may have felt shaken by the events. The aim of the conference was to create a genuinely inclusive space in which colleagues felt free to express themselves and their identities. "That safety was disrupted and disturbed by the protestors and their conduct was the very opposite of the inclusivity which we are striving for. " A Northumbria University spokesperson said: "We understand the concerns raised on this occasion and have sought to reassure colleagues that their safety and wellbeing is our highest priority. "In this instance our security team were able to resolve the situation swiftly and peacefully. "We will seek to avoid the possibility of similar interruptions to other events of importance to our community - any action that seeks to disrupt the smooth running of the university cannot be tolerated. "The spokesperson said the university has a legal obligation to promote freedom of speech and supports its members' right to protest. "However, we have guidelines about how to facilitate peaceful protest on our campus and remain clear that no members of our community should be engaged in conduct that seeks to stifle or shut down debate or seeks to intimidate," they added. Follow BBC Newcastle on X (formerly Twitter), external, Facebook, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc. co. uk. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 