 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1791 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-08 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. School probes staff member's Israel-Gaza comments T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A Sheffield school is investigating "ill-considered" comments from a staff member about the Palestinians' role in the Israel-Gaza war. Astrea Academy said it had been "very clear with our staff about the need for sensitivity concerning these events". Tensions between supporters of Israel and Palestine have risen since the war began in October. The staff member "will not be at school" while the incident is investigated, the school said. They declined to confirm whether the person was a teacher and if they had been suspended following the incident on Wednesday. An Astrea Academy Trust spokesperson said: "We recognise that the conflict draws a range of strongly held views and for this reason we have been very clear with our staff about the need for sensitivity concerning these events.  "The alleged incident falls short of the guidance we have given staff, and we understand that ill-considered words can unintentionally result in offence and distress. " They added: "We wrote to families to make them aware of what had happened, our actions and to apologise for any offence caused.  "What happened does not reflect our values or our ethos at Astrea Academy Sheffield, where we work hard to create a welcoming and inclusive environment for everyone in our school community. " Mark Jones, Labour councillor for Burngreave, said: "I think the relationship between the school and the community is a bit strained, this won't help. "At all times we would expect people to act respectfully and be mindful, not to be afraid of what they say, but to be cautious about causing offence. "That's the difficulty at the moment, certainly with more heightened sensitivities. " South Yorkshire Police said they were not investigating the incident. Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter) and Instagram. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs. news@bbc. co. uk. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 