 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2759 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-06-13 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. University exams cancelled after Gaza protests T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A university has been forced to cancel some of its students' end of year exams after buildings were occupied by pro-Palestine demonstrators. Thames Valley Police said its officers attended the University of Oxford following reports that protestors gained access to the Examination Schools. The force is working with the university but said no arrests had been made. A spokesperson from the university said: "It is unclear who the occupying group are representing, as they claim to be acting without the knowledge of the Oxford Action for Palestine (OA4P) encampments. " They added that they were "disappointed" with the occupation of the Examination Schools and the "absolutely unacceptable disruption caused to our students". "While the university supports the right to peaceful protest within the law and our rules, this action plainly goes beyond the bounds of acceptable protest,” they said. The university said it was putting contingency plans in place to ensure students had the opportunity to sit their exams with "as little disruption as possible". In May protestors were arrested for demonstrations related to the Israel-Gaza conflict. Oxford Action for Palestine (OA4P) started a sit-in at the university's offices in Wellington Square on 23 May, demanding a meeting over its Israel-Gaza conflict policies. In a statement an OA4P spokesperson said: "An autonomous group of protestors occupied one wing of the examination schools, renaming the East School to Dahshan School after the Palestinian scholar and martyr Saeed Dahshan. "The protesters have made it clear that their action was unaffiliated with OA4P and was undertaken without OA4P's knowledge. "They added that support for Palestine extends beyond their group. "This action is a reflection of the mounting frustration that has been felt by countless in the university community, who for months have urged Oxford's administration to act against Israel's ongoing and catastrophic genocide in Gaza," the OA4P spokesperson said. Israel rejects accusations that it is engaging in genocidal acts in its campaign in Gaza, and has insisted it has the right to defend itself following the armed incursion by Hamas on 7 October. Follow BBC South on Facebook, external, X (Twitter), external, or Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to south. newsonline@bbc. co. uk, external or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240, external. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 