 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2248 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-03-20 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Isle of Man demonstration calls for Gaza ceasefire T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. People have gathered in the Isle of Man's capital to urge the chief minister to back calls for a ceasefire in Gaza. About 60 people joined the demonstration outside the Tynwald building in Douglas, which organised by the Manx branch of Amnesty International, to call for peace. Israel's military started its campaign in Gaza following the 7 October attacks on Israel by Hamas. Chairman Phil Matthews said on 10 October Alfred Cannan had condemned the Hamas attacks but since then "he and Tynwald have remained silent" on "the collective punishment of innocent Palestinians". In a post on X, Mr Cannan had described the scenes on 7 October as "shocking and appalling" and said he joined "UK political leaders in unreservedly condemning this terrorist brutality". Mr Matthews said after months of lobbying MHKs and contacting the chief minister there had been no public statement regarding Tynwald’s position on the ongoing conflict in Gaza. Demonstrators at the event were calling for Manx politicians to back an "immediate ceasefire to condemn the atrocities that we’ve all been witnessing", he said. More than 31,000 Palestinian civilians have died since the war started, according to the Hamas-led health ministry in Gaza. The death toll has drawn international condemnation and alienated many of Israel's allies. Israel has previously said its actions in the Gaza Strip are justified because it is responding to Hamas's deadly attacks on 7 October. Mr Matthews said he disputes claims by the chief minister that the Isle of Man was "unable to speak out on international issues independently of the UK" as the government of fellow crown dependency Jersey had supported calls for "an immediate suspension of hostilities" last month. Joney Faragher MHK was one of a small group of Manx politicians who spoke to the demonstrators. She said: "There's obviously strength of feeling on the island. . . that we do need to have a voice on this. ""We do need to get behind a ceasefire as has the international community and we need to be on the right side of history. "The BBC has contacted the government for a response.  Why not follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook , externaland X, external? You can also send story ideas to IsleofMan@bbc. co. uk T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 