 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2496 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-03-25 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Palestine protesters sentenced for Elbit vandalism T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Seven activists who took part in a protest at a firm they claimed supplies equipment to the Israeli army have been given suspended prison sentences. On 15 May 2022, protesters from the group Palestine Action broke into the Bristol HQ of an international defence technology firm to destroy equipment. Elbit Systems UK said in court that it does not supply Israel with arms. On Monday at Bristol Crown Court, the defendants were also ordered to pay more than £5,000 in compensation. Palestine Action campaigners often use direct action to disrupt sites used by companies the group accuses of supplying arms to Israel. Elbit's global website claims its unmanned drones are the "backbone", external of the Israeli Defence Force. The protesters used sledgehammers to smash windows and gain entry to the Aztec West site before barricading themselves inside. They then caused thousands of pounds worth of damage to equipment and spray-painted messages such as "Free Palestine" and "Shut Elbit Down" on the walls and windows. On 6 February, they were each convicted of one count of burglary and one count of criminal damage at Bristol Crown Court. Stavit Sinai, 38, of Cothenivsstr, Berlin, Ronnie Barkan, 47, of Lower Market Street, Hove and Paul Shortt, 50, of Glenholim Place, Dumfries, were sentenced to 23 months imprisonment for burglary and 16 months for damaging property, to run concurrently. These sentences are suspended for 24 months. Eliza Sarson-Diment, 24, of Bedminster, Bristol, was sentenced to 20 months for burglary and 16 months for damaging property, to run concurrently, both sentences suspended for 24 months. Archie Sadler, 26, of Montpelier, Bristol, and Jarvey Georgson, 26, of Kent Road, Swindon, were sentenced to 22 months for burglary and 16 months for damaging property, to run concurrently. These sentences are all suspended for 24 months. Finton Owens, 25, of Carlingsford Road, Hampstead, was sentenced to 21 months for burglary and 16 months for damaging property to run concurrently, both suspended for 24 months. Sarson-Diment, Sadler, Owens, Georgeson and Shortt must also all undertake 200 hours of unpaid work. Each of the defendants must also pay compensation and costs, totalling £6,158, plus a victim surcharge. Pro-Palestinian demonstrations have been held around the UK and elsewhere since Israel's retaliation after Hamas militants attacked Israel on 7 October. Gaza's health ministry says since then more than 31,300 people have been killed in Gaza, with almost 2,000,000 Palestinians displaced. Iain Jenkins, Senior Crown Prosecutor for CPS South West, said: "This case involved planned vandalism on a huge scale in the name of protest. "As with all our cases where there is sufficient evidence and our legal test is met, these types of cases will continue to be robustly prosecuted. "We want to thank Avon and Somerset Police for their diligence in the investigation and for working with us as a cohesive team to allow us to present our case, which today resulted in all defendants being found guilty. " Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook, external and, X, external. Send your story ideas to us on email, external or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630, external. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 