 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1710 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-07 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Gaza protesters block BAE Systems yard in Glasgow T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Campaigners have staged a blockade at the BAE Systems shipyard in Glasgow in opposition to its ties to Israel. The protest at the entrances to the defence firm's site in Govan has been organised by a local group alongside Workers for a Free Palestine. The campaign group said it had also blockaded defence factories in Dorset, Brighton and Lancashire. It is urging BAE Systems to end ties with Israel and cease all weapons, defence and supplies trading. Protesters with Palestinian flags also said they wanted the UK Government to back a permanent ceasefire in Gaza. BAE Systems said it respects "everyone's right to protest peacefully". Workers for a Free Palestine said BAE Systems produces components of weapons sold to Israel - including the F35 combat aircraft and the Mk 38 Mod 2 machine gun. The activists blocked one entrance to the BAE site with a large banner stating "Stop Arming Israel". Police Scotland officers were in attendance at the demonstration. Protester Bint Sanna, who did not want to give her real name, told BBC Scotland News the group wanted to "put a stop to UK government support for Israel".  She added: "They are supporting them to commit genocide to kill thousands of innocent children, thousands of innocent women and men and destroying homes. " Another campaigner, Hex, said he travelled from Edinburgh to attend after a call to action from Palestinian trade unions.  He said: "While we can shut down this door and we can prevent the factory from running for a day, it's really the guys in there that have the real power. " Protester Oli said the group was not targeting yard workers with the action. He added: "We're here to blame the managers who decide to produce and sell arms to Israel. " The Glasgow protest was part of co-ordinated action to blockade four arms factories around the UK. The biggest was at Eaton Mission Systems in Wimborne near Bournemouth where around 600 people took part. A BAE Systems spokesperson said: "We're horrified by the situation in Israel and Gaza and the devastating impact it's having on civilians in the region and we hope it can be resolved as soon as possible.  "We operate under the tightest regulation and comply fully with all applicable defence export controls, which are subject to ongoing assessment. " Earlier this week BAE systems announced that it was creating 300 new jobs in Glasgow for the construction of new warships.  The manufacturer already employs more than 3,200 workers at its Glasgow sites at Govan and Scotstoun.  T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 