 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2515 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-07-03 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Police arrest 14 protesters in drone parts factory blockade T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Fourteen protesters have been arrested after a blockade at a defence equipment factory in Glasgow. Pro-Palestine activists calling for a ban on arms exports to Israel gathered at the Thales plant in Govan at 05:00. Three were arrested at the scene and a 11 more were detained by officers over a later disturbance on Govan Road. Thales, which manufactures drone components, denies that it supplies the Israeli military and said it only deals with the UK Ministry of Defence. However, the protesters claim that the firm, through its contract with Israeli-firm Elbit, is responsible for supplying parts for Watchkeeper drones used in Gaza. About 100 people gathered outside the gates of the factory. Protesters held banners calling for a ban on UK weapons exports to Israel and for a pause in the conflict – which began on 7 October last year. Police Scotland said two men were arrested in connection with disorder offences and another man was also arrested over an outstanding warrant. The protesters made their way towards Govan Cross where minor scuffles broke out with police near the subway station. Workers in local businesses told BBC Scotland the situation had seemed “tense” and the force helicopter had been deployed. The protesters said two people were injured in the incident, with one taken to A&E with a supsected broken nose and another to a minor injuries unit. A further nine people were arrested and charged in connection with disorder offences. A member of the public was taken to hospital as a precaution. Police Scotland area commander, Ch Insp Derrick Johnston, said: "The initial gathering passed largely without incident but the disorder that followed was dangerous and unacceptable. "There are obvious safety concerns when managing demonstrations and a proportionate policing response brought both incidents to a swift conclusion. "I would like to thank the wider public for their cooperation. "It is the second time in a matter of months the plant has been targeted by Pro-Palestine activists. In May, four were arrested outside the factory. Six police officers were injured in this incident. The Watchkeeper drone was modelled on Elbit's Hermes 450 drone, which is believed to have been used extensively over Gaza by the Israeli Defence Forces. Thales said it adhered to “rigorous and transparent” controls on weapons exports and it does not supply the Israeli military or Israeli MOD. A spokesperson added: “While those outside our site in Glasgow have the right to protest peacefully, we will work with authorities to prosecute anyone who threatens our employees, our property or our important work for the UK armed forces. " T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 