 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2154 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-03-15 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Gruff Rhys pulls out of festival in Gaza protest T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Super Furry Animals' singer Gruff Rhys has pulled out of a major US festival in protest over "the hyper violence inflicted on civilians in Gaza". Rhys is the latest in a line of artists boycotting the South by Southwest (SXSW) festival in Texas, which is sponsored by the US Army. On Instagram, external, the Welsh musician said he was "in dismay at the utter collapse of coherent diplomacy in the West". Organisers said they respected artists' right to free speech. Rhys has performed at the festival many times before. But he said the best way to use his platform to protest was to "withdraw my music" this weekend. Bands pull out of SXSW festival over Gaza conflictChurch says family threatened over Gaza supportChildren starving to death in northern Gaza - WHO "I'm personally disappointed as I love playing music," he said. "I do however feel this is a distinct and very sobering historical moment. "Towards the end of the lengthy Instagram post which did not specifically mention the US Army's sponsorship of the event, he added: "My wish is for peace and dignity for all people. "The festival, which runs until 16 March in the city of Austin, celebrates film, comedy and music and attracts more than 300,000 people each year. Many artists cancelled their sets after it was revealed the US Army was a "super sponsor" of the event, as well as defence contractor RTX Corporation. In a statement released on X, SXSW organisers said: "We are an organisation that welcomes diverse viewpoints. "Music is the soul of SXSW, and it has long been our legacy. We fully respect the decision these artists made to exercise their right to free speech. "It continued: "Across the globe, we are witnessing unspeakable tragedies, the rise of repressive regimes, and the increasing spread of violent conflict. It's more crucial than ever that we come together to solve these greater humanitarian issues. "On its links with the US Army, it said: "The Army's sponsorship is part of our commitment to bring forward ideas that shape our world. "We have and will continue to support human rights for all. The situation in the Middle East is tragic, and it illuminates the heightened importance of standing together against injustice. "In a statement provided to BBC Newsbeat, the US Army said it was "proud to be a sponsor of SXSW, and to have the opportunity to showcase America's Army. . . explore new ideas and insights, and create dynamic industry partnerships. " Why are Israel and Hamas fighting in Gaza?Inside the US plan to get food into Gaza by seaHow much aid is getting into Gaza and how? Israel launched a campaign in Gaza after Hamas attacked Israel on 7 October, in which about 1,200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage. More than 30,000 people in Gaza, mostly women and children, have been killed since then, according to the Hamas-run health ministry. America is Israel's biggest military backer, providing billions of dollars in defence aid every year, and a number of weapons Israel is using in the conflict, including jets and bombs, are US-made. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 