 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2129 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-03 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Gaza war massively changed me - Charlotte Church T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Charlotte Church says she has been "massively changed" by the war in Gaza after taking part in pro-Palestinian protests. Church previously said she was "in no way antisemitic" after being criticised for a controversial chant. Speaking ahead of the release of her new podcast, the Welsh singer said she will always "stand up for Palestine". "I fight for life, I fight for the preciousness and sanctity of life in everything that I do," she said. Charlotte Church: 'A different world is possible'Church says family threatened over Gaza supportCharlotte Church: 'I am in no way antisemitic' Cardiff-born Church told Radio Wales Breakfast on Wednesday: "I've been massively changed by what's happening in Palestine and I will forever be an advocate. "While the name Palestine is sometimes affixed to the Palestinian territories of Gaza or the West Bank, there is no independent state of Palestine today. Church said she was fighting "for the sanctity of life", which included causes like the anti-austerity movement and climate justice as well as that of Palestinians. "It benefits us individually to do this work as well because altruism is actually really, really good for us. So it's a win win, and I believe it's a deep responsibility too," she added. Church told the programme that her new podcast, Kicking Back with the Cardiffians, will see her talk about being working class, "doing the survival dance" and reflecting the lives of normal people rather than the rich. However, she said she will also not shy away from the heavy issues impacting the world, having been involved in much political activism herself in recent years. Church has been a vocal critic of the war in Gaza, which followed a Hamas attack on Israel on 7 October and has seen thousands killed in the Palestinian territory. On Monday, three British aid workers, John Chapman, 57, James Henderson, 33, and James Kirby, 47, were among seven killed in an Israeli strike in Gaza. Church previously faced a backlash after she led a 100-strong choir in a rendition of From the River to the Sea at a concert - a chant which critics say calls for the destruction of the state of Israel. In response, she said: "I am fighting for the liberation of all people. I have a deep heart for all religions and all difference. . . I am in no way antisemitic. " T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 