 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1976 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-05-21 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Brothers proud of killed aid worker's legacy T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. The brothers of a Cornwall aid worker killed by an air strike in Gaza have said their brother "achieved so much in his lifetime". James Henderson, 33, known as Jim, was among seven aid workers who died in the Israeli attack in April. His role as a security adviser was to ensure an aid convoy travelling in Gaza followed safety procedures and remained on the correct route. Family and friends will gather at Truro Cathedral on Wednesday in a send-off for the humanitarian worker. Brothers Dan and Matt Henderson said they were "very proud" of Jim and the legacy he left behind. Matt said: "He was doing some work that he became very passionate about. "He's achieved so much in his life in a short period of time. "Some people, maybe myself, could live another 30 odd years and not do what he's done. " The brothers said they would both message the former Royal Marine daily during his travels. Matt said his brother was "very well liked locally" and had "more friends than I've ever known". Dan added that Jim had "walked through so many walks of life". "I don't really think we knew how wide a scope of Jim's friends and people that he had real connections with until something like this happens. . . it makes us very proud," he said. Mr Henderson had a strong passion for rugby and was also a member of Falmouth and Penryn Boxing Club in Cornwall, which is renovating and renaming itself after him. "I think that really shaped him and pushed his competitive spirit and his determination and commitment to things through boxing and through sport," Matt said. The brothers reflected on their childhood, with Dan noting family holidays as "probably some of the most special times to look back on". Matt said Jim also had strong connections with both of their sons. He said: "He really enjoyed spending time with my son. "One of the best things about Jim is he had so many connections with so many people, he was able to have really meaningful relationships. "Dan's little boy didn't have as much time, but my son had quite a few years building a really special bond with Jim, and he's so good at that. "He was a really good uncle. " In a statement from Jim’s fiancée Jacqui and the Henderson family, they said that people were "at the heart" of everything he did. They said: "Whilst mourning the loss of him, and what he would have undoubtedly continued to do with his life, we also reflect on his legacy and the many people who will continue to benefit from what he started. "We love him. We miss him. We celebrate his achievements. "We know that his flame will continue to burn brightly in each and every one of us as we look to a future without his larger than life presence in it. " Follow BBC Cornwall on X (formerly Twitter), external, Facebook, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc. co. uk, external. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 