 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1712 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-07 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Gaza protesters form blockade at BAE factory T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Protesters have blocked an aerospace factory to call against the production of fighter jets which they say are being used in the Israel-Gaza war. Workers for a Free Palestine gathered outside BAE Systems in Samlesbury, Lancashire.   Similar protests have been held at BAE in Glasgow, Wimborne and Brighton. BAE Systems said the firm "respected everyone's right to protest peacefully" and was "horrified by the situation in Israel and Gaza". About 200 protesters held a banner calling for the firm to "stop arming Israel", while blocking cars from entering the Lancashire factory, where military aircraft parts are manufactured. Cameron Stocks from Manchester was one of those who arrived at about 07:00 GMT for the protest. He said they were opposed to the production of the F-35 fighter jet parts at the Lancashire factory, which he believed was being used by the Israeli military in Gaza. He said the campaign had "widespread support", adding "people are here from Manchester, Leeds, Liverpool, Lancaster, and Preston. " "This factory produces rear fuselage for every single F-35 stealth fighter in the world, the main combat plane used in Gaza," Mr Stocks said. "The British Government may have control over export licences, but we as workers are opposed to the continued production of these planes and their use by Israel. " A spokesman from BAE Systems said the factory operated under "the tightest regulation", and complied "fully with all applicable defence export controls, which are subject to ongoing assessment. " About 3,000 people are employed at Samlesbury, manufacturing fuselage and components for military aircraft. The demonstrators are urging the firm and other companies to end their ties with Israel and cease all weapons, defence and supplies trading with them. Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest. newsonline@bbc. co. uk T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 