 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2561 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-05-08 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Scores protest against Gaza war outside university T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. More than 100 people have protested against the war in Gaza in one of the UK's most famous student cities. A  demonstration took place in Cambridge alongside the setting up of a protest camp outside King's College. One student said pro-Palestinian protesters wanted Cambridge University to "disclose" links to companies and institutions "complicit in Israel's genocide". The university said it would not tolerate "any form of discrimination, intimidation, incitement, bullying or harassment". One protester, who declined to give the PA Media news agency her name, described herself as "part of a global collective which is a struggle for Palestinian liberation". She said protesters were demanding that the university "disclose all of its research collaborations and financial ties with companies and institutions complicit in Israel's genocide and then to divest from these". Another protester told the BBC that demonstrators needed to say something about "Israel’s occupation of Palestine". "The university was not listening to us, was not hearing our demands," he said. “It was not disclosing any of its financial ties which we know it has. "And so we are taking a stand; we are escalating the situation. ” Police said no arrests had been made at the protest. The Cambridge Palestine Solidarity Campaign has urged people to write to the university to express support for the encampment and "their demands". A Cambridge University spokesman said the university and King's College, on whose lawn the tents were set up, were operating normally. "The university is fully committed to academic freedom and freedom of speech within the law and we acknowledge the right to protest," it said in a statement, external. "We ask everyone in our community to treat each other with understanding and empathy. Our priority is the safety of all staff and students. "We will not tolerate antisemitism, Islamophobia and any other form of racial or religious hatred. " The university has issued "protest guidance" which said: "All members of our community should feel safe and we will never tolerate any form of discrimination, intimidation, incitement, bullying or harassment. " Follow Cambridgeshire news on Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc. co. uk, external or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830 T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 