 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2048 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-01-26 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Ex-lord mayor quits party over Israel-Gaza stance T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Newcastle’s first Muslim lord mayor has quit Labour in protest against the party's stance over the Israel-Gaza war. Habib Rahman also accused the party on Friday of a “culture of institutional racism”. The Elswick ward councillor, who became the first Muslim person to hold the post of lord mayor of Newcastle in 2021, will continue to sit as an independent. The city council’s ruling Labour group said it was “incredibly sad” at the resignation and that the party was “committed to combating and campaigning against all forms of racism”. Councillor Rahman, whose father Azizur was killed in 1977 at the Wallsend restaurant he worked at, has been a vocal campaigner against discrimination on Tyneside. Mr Rahman, who joined Labour in 2008, said he had spent his entire life campaigning for equality and fighting against all forms of victimisation, abuse and harassment. “I am a proud, lifelong anti-racist campaigner,” he told the Local Democracy Reporting Service. Mr Rahman criticised Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer’s stance on the Israel-Gaza conflict, highlighting what he called Sir Keir's "unquestioning support for the Israeli Government" and a "failure to call for an immediate ceasefire". He said that he had been "fighting for justice and against racism" within the Labour Party for close to two years. But instead of being supported, barriers had been put up and the organisations had not taken steps to address a wider "culture of institutional racism", he said. “I am resigning from the Labour Party because of the racism I have faced and Sir Keir Starmer’s support for the war on the Palestinian people in Gaza,” he said.  The resignation follows pro-Palestine campaigners being removed by police from a Newcastle City Council meeting on Wednesday. Mr Rahman said he would continue to serve his ward, Elswick, as an independent councillor until elections in 2026. A spokesperson for Newcastle Labour Group said they were “incredibly sad” about Mr Rahman’s decision. “We would like to thank him for all he has done for his constituents in Elswick and the city of Newcastle at large,” the spokesperson said. “The Labour Party is an anti-racist party, committed to combating and campaigning against all forms of racism, including antisemitism and Islamophobia,” they added.  Follow BBC Newcastle on X (formerly Twitter), external, Facebook, external and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc. co. uk. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 