 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2074 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-06-27 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Four arrested over damage to defence firm T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Four activists who targeted a defence firm that they claim supplies arms to Israel have been arrested. Palestine Action said its members occupied GRiD Defence Systems in Wooburn Green, near High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, on Thursday morning. Thames Valley Police said three women aged 24, 30 and 31, and a man aged 56 had been arrested on suspicion of burglary and criminal damage. GRiD Defence Systems said the protesters "were ill informed" about its work and that the company "does not supply equipment to Israel or for use in Israel". GRiD Defence Systems manufactures military-grade computer systems for the defence and aerospace industry, according to its website, external. Palestine Action said its activists “barricaded themselves inside" the office and "destroyed military hardware and unfurled banners". The protest group accused GRiD of being “a key supplier for Elbit Systems, Israel’s largest arms firm, along with dozens of other companies embedded in the Israeli war machine”. Palestine Action said it had found “dozens of boxes of GRiD processors” at the Elbit Systems site in Kent. A spokesperson for Palestine Action stated: "GRiD is just one of the companies we know to be supplying Elbit. "Any firm doing business which enables genocide should not be surprised when they too are shut down. "A GRiD spokesperson said the company was "saddened" to have had its premises targeted. "We are thankful that no-one was harmed," they said. "The protesters were ill informed and mistaken about the type of work GRiD is involved with. "GRiD is a small British company that makes portable computers that can be used in many different roles, typically in harsh environments. "GRiD provides its computers in support of the British Armed Forces. It does not supply equipment to Israel or for use in Israel. "Thames Valley Police said: “It is believed at this stage, that the activity of these individuals is linked to protests again the Israel/Hamas conflict in the Middle East. "Everyone has the right to demonstrate peacefully and lawfully. However, where offences are identified, we will not hesitate to take appropriate action. "Elbit Systems has been contacted for comment. Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on Facebook, external, Instagram, external and X, external. Got a story? Email eastofenglandnews@bbc. co. uk, external or WhatsApp us on 0800 169 1830 T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 