 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2758 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-06-05 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. University ball axed over pro-Palestinian protest T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A university summer ball has been cancelled because of a pro-Palestinian encampment. The Leeds University Union (LUU) said the event could not go ahead as the protest occupies space they would require for some elements of the event and they wanted also to respect people's right to protest. One protester said the situation could have been avoided if the university had engaged in a "meaningful discussion" with them. The University of Leeds  said it "shared the student union's disappointment" the ball could not go ahead. Instead of the ball, LUU has organised a scaled-back summer party to take place on Saturday. It is free and will be very similar to the ball, just without the outside elements, LUU said. The camp, comprising of about 50 tents, has been outside the student union building since 1 May. The protesters have said they want the University of Leeds to stop partnering with Israeli universities and to cease links with arms manufacturers. One protestor, Benji, a 21-year-old history student at the university, said he welcomed students being able to celebrate. However, he said the university had put the encampment's demands and the students' enjoyment "in conflict with each other".  He also said the summer party was a "compromise". Benji added: "The solution would have been the university engaging in meaningful discussions with us. "A lot of students here do support us, so it's a shame the university is trying to pit us against each other instead of listening to the interests of the students and staff. " Ella Williams, LUU's activities and opportunities officer, said it was not "logistically possible" to have parts of the ball outside. "The last thing we wanted was to not put anything on so this was a massive decision that a lot of people fed into to, to make sure we did what was right for everybody. "She also said the union has refunded all 4,000 ticket holders who will get priority access to the scaled-back event. Any additional spaces will go to other students.  Ms Williams said refunding the tickets and paying cancellation fees for various elements of the ball has had "large financial implications" for LUU. Another student, Callum Anderson, 21, said he did not mind about the change "as long as the vibe is the same and everyone dresses up". The computer science student added: "It's not a big concern to me where it is. "The summer party will include a silent disco, roller skating, drag racing and "loads of music and dancing".  A University of Leeds spokesperson added: “We are pleased that our final year students will still be able to celebrate their achievements at Leeds with their friends on Saturday at a free summer party which will include almost all the events planned for the Ball. "Follow BBC Yorkshire on Facebook, external, X (formerly Twitter, external) and Instagram, external. Send your story ideas to yorkslincs. news@bbc. co. uk. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 