 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2031 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-10 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Defence secretary rejects calls for Israel arms ban  T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. The defence secretary has rejected calls to suspend arms sales to Israel, while on a visit to Bristol. Grant Shapps met staff at the Ministry of Defence's (MoD) procurement headquarters in Abbeywood, Bristol, and spoke to suppliers of military equipment being used around the world. Experts from Bristol were among 1,000 lawyers and academics who wrote to the Prime Minister recently, external saying the sale of weapons to Israel "falls significantly short of obligations under international law". Mr Shapps told the BBC: "We do check carefully that every country we deal with is looking after humanitarian law. "  Last week, vehicles used by a charity operating in Gaza were attacked by Israeli drones. The seven people killed included James Kirby from Bristol. Mr Shapps offered his sympathy over the deaths, saying he was "devastated for all involved". Israel Gaza: Netanyahu making a 'mistake', says BidenSix months on, how close is Israel to eliminating Hamas?Gaza aid convoy strike: What we know"I know Israel has investigated and apologised, and my heart goes out to all those who have been affected," Mr Shapps said. "It is important that Israel looks after humanitarian law, but let us not forget that Hamas are the terrorists who got this going. "Meanwhile, Britain will do all we can to get massive amounts of aid into Gaza. "We recognise Israel's right to defend itself, but the main thing that Britain can do is support people in Gaza" he added.   During the visit, Mr Shapps also said the UK was moving from a post-war era to a pre-war one. "We are preparing, not because we are immediately going to war, but if you want to stop going to war then one of the ways you do that is by preparing," he said. "You put your adversaries off and let them know you are properly prepared," he added. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 