 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1857 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-03-17 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. 'Great' to have NI government again - Biden T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. The US president has met Northern Ireland's first and deputy first ministers at the White House. President Joe Biden held a private conversation with Michelle O'Neill and Emma Little Pengelly for around 15 minutes. Special envoy Joe Kennedy was also present. It was the first joint visit by Executive Office ministers since Arlene Foster and Martin McGuinness met the then-US President Barack Obama in 2016. Afterwards both the first and deputy first ministers hailed the visit as a huge success and hoped it would play a positive role in helping to secure fresh investment in Northern Ireland. Speaking after the meeting, Ms O’Neill said: “Both Emma and I have had a very positive experience, meeting business leaders from a wide range of sectors who were left with a clear understanding of why they should invest in the north. "Publicly, President Biden has again welcomed the return of power-sharing in Northern Ireland. Speaking at the annual St Patrick's day shamrock ceremony he said it was 'great' to have a fully functioning government in Northern Ireland again. After leading a round of applause for the first and deputy first ministers, President Biden said that the Good Friday agreement provided for " an entire generation whose hearts have been shaped not by grievances of the past but by confidence in a better future" Also present in the audience at the White House were Sir Jeffrey Donaldson, the DUP leader, Education minister Paul Givan and NI Secretary of State, Chris Heaton Harris. Ms O'Neill said: “Over the coming months we will continue to build on the connections we have made in the United States in order to grow our economy for the betterment of our citizens. ”Deputy First Minister Emma Little-Pengelly said: “We had a really positive meeting with President Biden and discussed the importance of our relationship and U. S. investment when it comes to securing a thriving, brighter future for everyone. “We are a global leader in sectors such as cyber security, RegTech, FinTech, advanced manufacturing and health sciences with a young, skilled and dedicated workforce. I am confident those influential decision makers we have met with have been very impressed by what they have heard. " There has been a change of tone in Washington on the issue of the conflict in the Middle East according to the taoiseach (Irish prime minister). Speaking after the annual St Patrick's day brunch, Leo Varadkar said he felt reassured that the Irish position on Gaza should "not be toned down". "There are different perspectives between Ireland and the US," he said. "They're different aspects within the US as well. But I have to say, nobody I've encountered said to me that we should tone down our position or that they feel that that we've gone too far in comments we've made on the position and that's reassuring. " The taoiseach, who several days ago urged President Joe Biden to work towards an "immediate humanitarian ceasefire"  in Gaza, said the president was working hard to secure that. The restoration of the Northern Ireland executive was also praised by the taoiseach in Washington DC. Leo Varadkar said that the visit to the White House this year is different because of the functioning of the power sharing government. "There would have (previously) been a conversation about what could have been done to get it working and it's just been great to see the fact that it is operating," he added.  It was a party they could not afford to fully enjoy but one equally they dared not miss. The spotlight and political access afforded to the Irish around St Patrick’s Day is unrivalled. It was the perfect backdrop to celebrate the return of power-sharing at Stormont. Cashing in on the US good will was the priority for the first and deputy first ministers as they sought new investment. But Michelle O’Neill could not fully bask in the glory with the bloodshed in Gaza continuing. She like Taoiseach Leo Varadkar was under pressure to challenge President Biden over his financial and military support for the Israeli government. Fortunately for them that task was made easier as their visit this week coincided with a shift in the US position. The rhetoric against the Israeli bombardment has hardened in Washington, though it continues to provide financial and military aid. Derived from the Gaelic seamróg (young clover), the three-leaf plant has had a symbolic purpose since the 18th Century, decorating coins, medals and coat lapels of the great and good at home and abroad. Traditionally the plant was said to have been used by St Patrick to illustrate the Christian Holy Trinity. But how did the US president ending up being presented with a bowl of them? Every year the taoiseach (Irish prime minister) makes a trip to the US and has an audience with the president at the White House. The plant first made its way into the White House in 1952 with the Irish Ambassador to the US John Hearne delivering a box for President Harry Truman. The ceremony grew the next year with the introduction of a cut-glass bowl supplied by Waterford Crystal, presented to the new President Dwight D Eisenhower. The tradition has continued in one form or another ever since, giving the Republic of Ireland enviable access to the US president every March.  T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 