 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2557 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-02-27 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. SNP accuses Speaker of 'effectively lying' on debate T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. The SNP's Westminster leader has accused the Speaker of "effectively lying" over the possibility of an emergency Gaza debate. Last week an SNP debate on Gaza descended into chaos after a decision over voting by Sir Lindsay Hoyle. He apologised and offered the possibility of a second debate this week - before rejecting that bid. The Speaker's Office explained the decision was due to a ministerial statement on the same issue. Mr Flynn told BBC Radio Scotland: "Unfortunately, the Speaker of the House of Commons (has) broken the rules and now broke his word and effectively lied, not just to SNP MPs but the entire parliamentary chamber and indeed the public last Thursday. "I don't think anyone can be in any position where they don't find that deeply, deeply challenging, given the Speaker of the House of Commons is there to effectively ensure that democracy runs smoothly on these isles. " A spokesperson from Speaker's Office referred to Sir Lindsay's statement in the Commons on Monday, when he explained his reasoning. He said: "In determining whether a matter is urgent, I must have regard to the probability of the matter being brought before the House in time by other means. The House came to a resolution on this matter on Wednesday last week. "Further, I understand that the government are ready to make a relevant statement tomorrow, so there is a very imminent opportunity for this important matter to come before the House. "That is why I decided that the application for an emergency debate should not proceed. " The furore started last week, when the Speaker decided to allow a Labour amendment to an SNP motion on Gaza to go to a vote, effectively denying the SNP the chance to vote on their own motion. Sir Lindsay apologised the same day, insisting his priority was the safety of MPs, which he believes to be under threat over this issue. But anger in the ranks of SNP and Conservative MPs saw them band together to sign an Early Day Motion of no confidence in the Speaker. It now stands at 81 signatures. Under mounting pressure to quit, Sir Lindsay offered the SNP the option of an emergency debate, known as an SO24, alongside another apology. However, he later turned down the SNP's request for that emergency debate, now saying a statement from the government on Tuesday would be sufficient. An update on Israel and Gaza is being made to MPs by Foreign Office Minister Andrew Mitchell, who said calling for a ceasefire would not be enough to make one happen and re-stated the government's position. "We are trying to negotiate an immediate pause in order that we can get the hostages out and get incredibly badly-needed aid in, leading to a sustainable ceasefire," he said. Shadow Foreign Office minister David Lammy called for an "immediate humanitarian ceasefire now", which he said should be a "truce in exchange for hostages. . . by Ramadan". SNP foreign affairs spokesperson Brendan O'Hara accused Israel of "ethnic cleansing and collective punishment" and the UK government of "complete dereliction of all moral and legal responsibility". In response, Mr Mitchell rejected the claims and said "the central aim of all us is to bring about a ceasefire" and that, "beneath the sound and fury" of Mr O'Hara's statement "there is more substantial agreement between his party and the government than he is recognising". T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 