 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2151 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-07-19 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Glasgow celebrates Pride after Palestine protest row T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Thousands of people have taken part in colourful Pride celebrations in Glasgow after concerns were raised about plans for pro-Palestine protests. A Glasgow Pride spokesman said it was "firmly against" conflict of any kind, but the purpose of Pride was to "stand-up for the human rights and inclusion of the LGBTQIA+ community". The Glasgow Greens said there was "no conflict between standing for a free Palestine and celebrating our queer identities". Last year's event reportedly saw a record 50,000 people march through the city to celebrate LGBTQ+ people. The parade left Festival Park at midday and finished at Glasgow Green. The nearby Barrowland Ballroom hosted the main stage for the free Pride Hub and Barras Art & Design (BAAD) looked after the community stage. The line-up included performances from Whigfield, Jedward, Lucy Spraggan and Girls Aloud cover band Girls R Loud. Meanwhile, the Barras Market was transformed into a Pride Market with more than 130 retailers and food vendors. The city council recently unveiled a new mural of the LGBTQ+ flag on Wilson Street in the Merchant City ahead of the weekend's celebrations. Following Israel's military campaign in Gaza, which was triggered by the Hamas attack on 7 October, the Glasgow Greens and Rainbow Greens decided not to march in the parade's "Green Bloc". Instead they joined a "No Pride in Genocide: Radical Bloc". They said this was due to "reports of Glasgow’s Pride Ltd’s corporate sponsors" and their potential links to Israel, as well as sponsors who are "accelerating the climate crisis". No Pride in Genocide has urged members of the LGBTQ+ community to write to Glasgow's Pride and "express support for a transparent and democratic approach to finances". After the march set off dozens of Palestinian flags were visible near the rear of the parade. Glasgow Greens committee member Ellie Gomersall said: "Pride is first and foremost a protest and that must always be remembered even as we rightly celebrate how far our community has come in our fight for liberation. "As we continue that fight for our human rights we must stand in solidarity with all those across the world who are fighting for theirs. "There is no conflict between standing for a free Palestine and celebrating our queer identities – for Glasgow’s Pride Ltd to imply this is disappointing and offensive. " She said the Scottish Greens would always fight for LGBTQ+ people but it would "not stop us from standing with Palestine or fighting the climate crisis". Ms Gomersall added: "Pride should be about liberation for all, not a celebration of corporations putting a rainbow in their logo. "Glasgow's Pride said it firmly stood against any and all forms of conflict, "especially in cases of extreme violence towards a minority". A spokesperson said: "While it's vital that we stand against these issues, Pride has it's own clear purpose - it's not party - it is the day we stand up for the human rights and inclusion of the LGBTQIA+ community. "We welcome everyone to march with us in the name of inclusion over division, and love over hate. " T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 