 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2425 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-09 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Man who posted support for Hamas online sentenced T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A man who admitted posting support for Hamas on social media has been sentenced for a terrorism offence. Ozain Yousef, 23, shared extremist material supportive of the group following its attack on Israel on 7 October, Westminster Magistrates' Court heard. Yousef, of Mexborough Place, Leeds, admitted a charge of supporting a proscribed organisation last month. He was sentenced to 16 weeks' imprisonment, suspended for two years. The court heard Yousef was arrested on 24 November last year as part of an investigation by Counter Terrorism Policing North East. It followed a report made to police that his social media account on X, formerly known as Twitter, had posted extremist material supportive of HamasHis lawyer said he had been "caught up in the toxic environment of social media" and was "very ashamed of where that led him". Judge Daniel Sternberg said Yousef had "plainly engaged in persistent conduct" intended to show support for Hamas. ' One post directly acknowledged Hamas and aligned himself as a "brother" of the proscribed organisation, the court heard. In another, he re-posted an image of a sniper from the Qassam Brigade, the military wing associated with Hamas. Judge Sternberg said it was important that Yousef had expressed regret for his actions to the probation service. He added: "You expressed embarrassment for bringing shame to your family through this incident. "Defence lawyer Kara Frith told the court Yousef was "adamant" he did not believe everything he posted and was "truly remorseful". Yousef was ordered to pay £85 in costs and a victim surcharge of £154, as well as to complete 100 hours of unpaid work. Judge Sternberg also said he must provide the username and password of his social media accounts at the request of his supervising officer and to not delete the call or internet history from any of his devices. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 