 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2519 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-05-15 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Police officer bitten and five others injured at pro-Palestinian demo T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Six police officers have been injured - including one who was bitten on the arm -  at a pro-Palestinian demonstration outside a Glasgow defence equipment factoryUp to 50 protesters blocked the Govan entrance to the Thales site, a company that  produces parts for military drones, early on Wednesday. They were calling for the the UK to end arms exports to Israel and an immediate ceasefire in Gaza. Four demonstrators - three men aged 18, 28 and 29, and a 21-year-old woman - were arrested and charged during what appeared to be minor disturbances. The protesters later moved away from the factory entrance and continued their demonstration further down the street. Two of the officers were treated at hospital. One was discharged after treatment but the other was kept in for further assessment. Ch Insp Derrick Johnston said: “We have a legal duty to protect the rights of people who wish to peacefully protest as well as those affected by protest activity, however officers were met with an unacceptable level of hostility and resistance today. “One of our officers was bitten, assaults are not part of the job and will not be tolerated, and we were fortunately able to arrest the individual responsible. “When policing any protest our priorities are to ensure the safety of protesters, the public and police officers involved as well as preventing criminal behaviour or disorder and deescalating tensions. " Thales is involved in producing the Watchkeeper drone with Israeli defence company Elbit Systems for use by the British Army. Watchkeeper was modelled on Elbit's Hermes 450 drone, which is believed to have been used extensively over Gaza by the Israeli Defence Forces and which was reported by the Haaretz newspaper to have been responsible for the strike on a World Central Kitchen convoy that killed seven aid workers in April. UK foreign secretary Lord Cameron has so far ruled out halting arms sales to Israel. Speaking on the BBC's Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg programme, Lord Cameron said such a move would only strengthen Hamas. He said while he would not support a major ground offensive in the Gazan city of Rafah, the UK would not copy US plans to stop some arms sales. The UK government does not directly sell arms to Israel but grants licenses to weapons companies based on legal advice. In contrast, the US uses a less restrictive government-to-government deals to sell arms. On Wednesday it emerged the White House has told Congress it wants to send more than $1bn (£800m) in new weapons to Israel. The country launched a military campaign to destroy Hamas in response to the group's cross-border attack on southern Israel on 7 October, during which about 1,200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage. More than 35,170 people have been killed in Gaza since then, including 82 in the past 24 hours, according to the territory's Hamas-run health ministry. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 