 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2647 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-18 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Tynwald calls for permanent ceasefire in Gaza T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Tynwald members have unanimously called for a "sustainable, permanent ceasefire" in Gaza, condemning the killing of civilians on both sides of the conflict. Manx politicians also agreed they "unreservedly condemned the terrorist attacks" on Israel by Hamas on 7 October, which led to the Israeli military's campaign in the region. Politicians backed the motion by Michelle Haywood MHK, after it was amended by the Chief Minister Alfred Cannan. Calling on members to support the move, Ms Haywood said the island's parliament "may not have a loud voice on the international stage but we do have a voice, and it matters that we speak out". In March, about 60 people joined a demonstration outside the Tynwald buildings in Douglas to call for peace. More than 33,800 people have been killed in Gaza during Israel's military campaign, according to the territory's Hamas-run health ministry. The situation was described as both "complex" and "heart-breaking" during the debate, with Tim Glover MHK urging the parliament to "speak as a united Tynwald in sending this message out". The wording of the motion underwent a number of changes by Mr Cannan which included the description of the early-October attacks as "terrorist" and the condemnation of the killing of innocent civilians on both sides of the conflict. He told the court the amendment would "better reflect the position of Israel acting under law to conduct military operation and warfare against a terrorist entity" after consulting with the UK Government's Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office. Supporting the amendments, members called on "Israel to abide by international law in the conduct of its military operations and to respect the basic human rights of Palestinian civilians" and for the international community "do everything within its power to create safe and meaningful aid corridors into the Gaza Strip and enable safe passage out of the region". Manx politicians also confirmed they stood "in solidarity with the Palestinian and Israeli communities of the Isle of Man affected by the conflict". Why not follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook, external and X, external? You can also send story ideas to IsleofMan@bbc. co. uk T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 