 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2086 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-04 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Gallery makes U-turn on Palestinian art event T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A Manchester gallery has reinstated a Palestinian arts event after a fierce backlash over its decision to cancel the performance. HOME arts venue had said it was axing the event due to publicity generated by a letter from the local Jewish Representative Council. On Wednesday 100 artists began removing their work from the gallery in protest at the decision. HOME apologised for any distress or upset caused. The row developed after the Jewish Representative Council of Greater Manchester (JRCGM) demanded the cancellation of the Voices of Resilience event, slated for 22 April at the city centre venue. The JRCGM raised concerns about the event featuring the work of Gazan writer Atef Abu Saif, who is also minister of culture at the Palestinian Authority. It highlighted reported comments made by Mr Abu Saif in 2014 when he was alleged to have said "Israel surpassed Hitler's massacres".  Announcing the cancellation of the event on 28 March, HOME said it had taken the decision out of "concern" for staff, artists and audience members. Artist Mollie Balshaw, who was among those taking their work down on Wednesday evening, told BBC North West Tonight: "The decision that they've made is political and it's a decision that I disagree with, as do so many other artists in the show and it felt like the right thing to do. "Maxine Peake, who was due to appear at Voices of Resilience, and fellow actress Juliet Stevenson also joined hundreds of creatives in signing a letter which called HOME's decision "cowardly". HOME announced on Thursday afternoon that the event was back on. In a statement posted on its website, the venue said it "recognised how deeply" the cancellation had affected communities in the city and further afield.  "We support Palestinian and all community voices, and acknowledge that we can learn from how this was handled. We regret that this has had such wide-reaching impacts", it said. HOME said it had continued speaking to all parties involved and had been able to "access additional resources" to support the delivery of the event. It said it was committed to "championing equality and diversity" but acknowledged it had "work to do" to restore confidence. Referring to the war in Gaza, HOME said: "We stand with all innocent victims of this conflict, and call for a humanitarian solution. "The venue said details of the reinstated event would be announced shortly. Comma Press said it was "deeply moved" by the solidarity shown by the artistic community in Manchester. "This is a potential watershed moment in the campaign against the intimidation that arts venues face for showcasing Palestinian artists and voices", it said. The organiser said it wanted to "express solidarity" with HOME staff and added: "We still have faith in Manchester as a radical place. "The JRCGM, however, said it was "dismayed" by the U-turn and denied it had been trying to silence Palestinian voices. It said it had raised "legitimate concerns of our community around one of the contributors who has made disturbing and inappropriate references to the Holocaust".  Why not follow BBC Manchester on Facebook, external, X, external and Instagram, external? You can also send story ideas to northwest. newsonline@bbc. co. uk, external T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 