 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 1683 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-18 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Azaiza mural for all journalists in Gaza - artist T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A mural of Palestinian photojournalist Motaz Azaiza was created in tribute to those covering the conflict in Gaza, the artist behind it has said. Azaiza, who has more than 17 million Instagram followers, was recently named "man of the year" by GQ Middle East for his work covering the Israel-Gaza war. Akse P19, who painted the mural in Manchester, said it was "dedicated to all journalists reporting from Gaza".  Ali Yousef, who commissioned the work, said it had had "positive" reactions. The restaurant owner said Greater Manchester's Palestinian community had been "left helpless and quite hopeless" by what was happening, so "got together and said we needed to commend those who are conveying news from within Gaza". He said the restrictions on communication in Gaza meant that "without them, we would have zero journalism, because there is no internet". He added that he had developed a respect for Akse P19 after seeing his murals around Manchester and he and his wife approached the artist to design a mural "thinking he was not going to respond, but he got back and agreed". Akse P19, who declined to be interviewed, has previously created murals of footballer Marcus Rashford and suffragette Emmeline Pankhurst and painted the work in Burnage over a depiction of Uma Thurman he created at the same site in 2018. In a post on Instagram, he said the war had been "the deadliest period for journalists covering conflicts since [Committee to Protect Journalists] records began in 1992". "This mural is dedicated to all journalists reporting from Gaza right now," he added. At least 64 media workers have been killed while covering the conflict, which began in October. Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, X and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest. newsonline@bbc. co. uk T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 