 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2077 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-02-13 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. France bans Israeli settlers over West Bank violence T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. France will ban 28 Israeli settlers accused of attacking Palestinian civilians in the occupied West Bank. The foreign ministry said it "firmly condemned" the "unacceptable violence". The US and UK recently took similar action, each imposing restrictions on four Israelis. On Monday France, Poland and Germany all announced that Israelis involved in West Bank attacks would be sanctioned.  Violence there has surged since Hamas's attack in southern Israel on 7 October. "These measures come as violence perpetrated by settlers against the Palestinian population has increased in recent months", the French foreign ministry said in a statement. "Colonisation is illegal under international law and must stop," it added. "Its continuation is incompatible with the creation of a viable Palestinian state, which is the only solution so that Israelis and Palestinians can live, side by side, in peace and security. " Israeli settler violence brings destruction and fear to West Bank West Bank Palestinians hit by surge of Israeli settler attacks The statement said France would also be seeking sanctions at European level. The individuals have not been named. On Monday, the UK announced financial and travel restrictions on four "extremist" Israeli settlers. The Foreign Office said they had committed human rights abuses against Palestinians in the West Bank. At the start of the month, US President Joe Biden approved sanctions on four Israelis. Only one individual was on both the UK and US lists. Those on the US list are blocked from accessing any property or assets in the US and cannot use the country's financial system. The White House said violence in the West Bank had reached "intolerable levels". As of the end of January, 370 Palestinians have been killed in the West Bank, 94 of them children, since the 7 October attack on Israel, according to the UN. At least eight of the Palestinians who have died were killed by Israeli settlers. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 