 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 2586 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-02-22 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Speaker's constituents react to Gaza vote row T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. People living in House of Commons Speaker Lyndsay Hoyle's constituency have rallied round him in the face of criticism over his handling of Gaza ceasefire debate. Sir Lindsay Hoyle sparked fury from SNP and Conservative MPs when he broke with convention to allow a vote on a Labour motion for an "immediate humanitarian ceasefire". One constituent in Chorley, Lancashire - which he has represented for over 30 years - said "everyone makes mistakes". And another said they believed he "tried to do things in a fair way". Sir Lindsay's decision to allow the vote on the Labour amendment meant MPs could call for a ceasefire without backing a differently-worded SNP motion, limiting a potential Labour rebellion. He has said he allowed the vote to protect MPs' safety, but the decision saw the Commons descend into acrimony. Sir Lindsay later apologised, but has still faced calls to resign. BBC News spoke to people in Chorley to gauge their reaction to the row engulfing their MP.   Market trader John Tyrer said: "I've never heard one bad word said about Lindsay from any Chorley people," he said. "He comes here, he's just one of the lads, and I think he's been first class for Chorley. "He can't resign, if it is a mistake, so what? Everybody makes mistakes. "Just because he's the Speaker, he's not infallible, is he?" Marie, who runs a sandwich shop on Chorley market, said she was "gutted" when she heard what had happened in the Commons. "I swear Lindsay Hoyle's one of the best people you'll ever meet. "He is for the people, he doesn't forget where he's come from. He speaks to everyone on the market. "He's put Chorley on the map. "It would be sad if he went. " Jan, who has been a Chorley resident for over 30 years, said Sir Lindsay "genuinely does love his local town and he spends a lot of time here". "I think he is quite a genuine person. "My only concern is because he's been the Speaker for so long, we've not really had full representation like we would if he wasn't doing that. "She said she believed it must be hard for Sir Lindsay to put his previous political career with Labour to one side while working as Speaker. "He does try to do things in a fair way. "If you say something that offends people, or upsets people then you apologise, and then let's move on. "I think it would be a shame if he went under a bit of a cloud, because he's done a really good job. " Why not follow BBC Lancashire on Facebook, external, X, external and Instagram, external? You can also send story ideas to northwest. newsonline@bbc. co. uk T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 