 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 10812 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-11 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. More displaced Gazans pushed towards border with Egypt. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. As fighting intensifies in Gaza, more and more residents are being pushed further south to Rafah, on the border with Egypt, and one of the areas designated as safe by the Israeli military. The large number of displaced people means the city is unable to shelter everyone amid widespread shortages of food and water, as only limited humanitarian aid is being allowed to enter the territory. Philippe Lazzarini, the head of the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, voiced concerns that the situation could lead to the mass exodus of Palestinians into Egypt, pointing to the “decimation of northern Gaza and the displacement of millions of Gazans to the south”, as well as the current evacuation orders in the central part of Khan Younis, with the Israeli military urging residents to move closer to the Egyptian border. “[The] developments we are witnessing point to attempts to move Palestinians into Egypt,” Lazzarini said in an article for the Los Angeles Times published at the weekend, “regardless of whether they stay there or are resettled elsewhere”. The United Nations and several member states, including the US, have firmly rejected the forced displacement of Gazans out of the territory, he added. Similar concerns about Gazans being displaced out of their territory have been voiced by the Jordanian foreign minister, Ayman Safadi, who said on Sunday that Israel was trying to “empty Gaza of its people”. Egypt has strongly opposed any relocation of Palestinians to its territory. But some are already referring to it as a possible second Nakba, or catastrophe, the way Palestinians describe the displacement of people following the Israeli declaration of independence, in 1948. Eylon Levy, an Israeli government spokesman, strongly rejected the recent claims as “outrageous and false”, saying that the country was defending itself “from the monsters who perpetrated the 7 October massacre” and bringing them to justice. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 