 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 10791 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-12 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Where we are tonight. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. It is just gone 00:30 here in London and 02:30 in Gaza where we can hear the occasional thud of an explosion on a live video feed, set up across the boundary in Israeli territory. Many civilians in Gaza have gone to bed hungry after another day of serious shortages of food, water and medicine, while Israel stepped up its bombardment of targets both in the north and south of the territory. Israeli tanks moved towards the centre of the southern city of Khan Younis, where hundreds of thousands of Gazans have sought shelter. Israel has now told them to move to al-Mawasi but international aid organisations criticise the call, since the area is a small strip of land with  few buildings and no infrastructure to provide for basic human needs. The rest of the Gaza Strip is on the brink of a "total breakdown of civil order" when it comes to the delivery of limited humanitarian aid, the UN’s agency for Palestinian refugees says. At least 18,000 people have been killed in Gaza, according to the Hamas-run health ministry, since 7 October when Hamas launched its devastating surprise attack on Israel. Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says Hamas fighters have been surrendering to IDF forces and it is the "beginning of the end" for the group which has controlled Gaza for years. However, one military analyst speaking to the BBC described the claim as “wildly optimistic”. The UK and the EU said they were planning to impose sanctions on Israelis responsible for violence against Palestinians in the West Bank. Violent attacks there, including fatal shootings of Palestinians by armed Jewish settlers, have risen sharply. And protests over the war go on, with pro-Palestinian demonstrators in Chile demanding a ceasefire outside the US embassy in the cpaital, Santiago. Israeli artillery firing towards Gaza on Monday. Police in Chile hold off protesters demanding a ceasefire outside the US embassy in Santiago. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 