 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 10058 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-14 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Iran attack on Israel crosses a red line. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. A lot depends on what Israel does now. They're getting a lot of signals from their allies, who helped them out enormously over the course of the night. The Americans are giving a very strong signal of “ironclad” security - essentially saying "we've got your back". The British and the Jordanians were also involved, and Israel itself has formidable air defence capabilities. For Iran, I think it will be a bit crushing to see that they got almost nothing through that Israeli defence net. So the question now is: Will Israel decide to hit back, perhaps on Iranian soil? That would be a further escalation. I've been speaking to a senior western diplomat who tells me that it's been a long night, but that their job now is to draw a line under this. Please do not, they are telling the Israelis, carry out an attack on Iranian soil. It’s notable that US President Biden has called for a diplomatic response and is not talking about any kind of military response. The Iranians telegraphed quite clearly that they were going to do something – the Israelis, the US, Britain and others were ready. So this was a calibrated move on Iran’s part and Western allies are now hoping this will be the end of this episode. For Iran, it’s very important to restore a sense of deterrence. That’s what their network of allies across the Middle East is about. Clearly the fact that the Israelis were able to carry out that strike on a diplomatic compound on 1 April and think they could get away with it suggests Iran's deterrence wasn’t very strong and they are trying to restore that. What has not changed is that the Americans do not want an escalation in the Middle East. A red line has been crossed for the first time – the Iranians have directly hit Israeli soil. And Israeli right-wingers are already saying there must be a response. So it is by no means certain that this is the end of the episode and if the line is not drawn, it really is a very dangerous moment. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 