 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 10678 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-12 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Senior US officials increasingly showing discontent. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. As the Israeli military pushes ahead with its war against Hamas in Gaza, the massive civilian death toll from bombardments and a worsening humanitarian crisis are fuelling international criticism and calls for a ceasefire. President Biden’s comments today that Israel is starting to lose support around the world are his strongest yet about the Israeli offensive, but senior American officials have increasingly demonstrated discontent. Days ago, Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said there was a “gap” between pledges by Israeli authorities to spare civilians in Gaza and the reality on the ground. That followed a stark warning from Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin, that Israel risked pushing Palestinians into the arms of Hamas by killing so many people, turning a tactical victory into a strategic defeat. Disagreements are also emerging about post-war Gaza, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying he is against the Biden administration’s plans to have the Palestinian Authority, which currently administers parts of the Israeli-occupied West Bank, take over control of Gaza. In his comments, Biden also said Netanyahu had to change his government, the most religious and hard-line in Israel’s history, saying that it opposed a two-state solution. That is the proposal favoured by the international community to end the decades-long Israeli-Palestinian conflict that would lead to the creation of an independent Palestinian state in Gaza and the West Bank, living alongside Israel. Netanyahu, whose coalition includes ultranationalist and ultra-Orthodox Jewish allies, has previously vowed to legalise illegal settlements built in the West Bank and annex territories, which would make impossible the creation of any viable state in the area. Israel, Biden said, “can’t say no” to a Palestinian state. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 