 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 8549 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-04 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Biden under intense pressure ahead of talks with Netanyahu. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. We reported earlier that US President Joe Biden is due to speak to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today - their first direct contact since the air strike on Monday that killed aid workers in Gaza. The phone call, due in the next few hours, could amount to a defining moment in the course of this six-month war. US-Israel relations, in terms of what is said (but not for now what is done), are at a nadir - their lowest point in many years. Biden expressed his "outrage" at Israel’s killing of international aid workers this week. As the war has worn on, the White House has signalled his frustration, then exasperation and now anger at Israel’s conduct. The president is a life-long staunch supporter of Israel. He embraced Netanyahu - literally and figuratively - after the 7 October attacks. But this backing, especially with a US election nearing, has put him under growing pressure particularly from his Democrat base. Every day the administration is having to explain how an "ironclad" alliance remains in place with the Israeli leader and his ultra-nationalist coalition - given the catastrophically high number of civilians killed by Israel, along with a siege that has now left Gaza on the brink of famine. He will press Netanyahu - again - to urgently open ground routes for aid and to try to stop Israel invading the city of Rafah. So far, few of the American requests have been meaningfully acted upon. Netanyahu is also under unprecedented pressure at home. Many Israelis are on the streets, wanting rid of their prime minister, as they demand the release of the remaining hostages held by Hamas. Netanyahu tends to try to build his base of popular support by portraying himself as able to resist US pressure. Both leaders will likely try to demonstrate a tough approach to their positions in the messages put out after the call. But the bedrock of the relationship remains - the US flow of weapons has continued uninterrupted to Israel despite the row. For now, that is unlikely to change. Today’s call will further shape whether Biden thinks he’s going to be listened to in future. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 