 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 8817 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-09 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Fighting now in its tenth week. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Good morning and welcome back to our live coverage of developments in the Middle East. As the Israel-Hamas war enters its tenth week, here are some of the key things to know: In the Gaza Strip, there are reports of house-to-house fighting in Khan Younis - and of tanks advancing towards the centre of the city - as intense battles continue in the south of the territory. Last night, the US vetoed a UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza, saying it was “imbalanced” and “divorced from reality”, and that it failed to clearly condemn Hamas for its deadly 7 October attacks. (As one of five permanent council members, the US has the power to veto any resolution) Washington’s position attracted widespread criticism, including from China, which described the US as “self-contradictory” by expressing concern for civilian lives , but refusing to support a draft for a ceasefire. Russia – which has ignored all security council demands to withdraw from Ukraine in its own war - called the US “heartless”, and accused the country of playing a “geopolitical game”. The State of Palestine, which has permanent observer status at the UN, called the failure to pass the resolution “a turning point in history” and accused the security council of failing to uphold its responsibility in the face of mounting Palestinian civilian deaths. Most of Khan Younis’s population – many who had to flee northern Gaza near the start of the war – have left the city for coastal areas, or further south towards Rafah, near the Egyptian border. The BBC has been speaking people who have fled to Al-Mawasi, a narrow strip of land by the Mediterranean Sea, delineated by the Israeli army as a "humanitarian zone". One person described it as "not a place for human beings" Firefighters putting out a blaze in Khan Younis this morning. The UN Security Council meeting. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 