 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 8593 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-05-20 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. A devastating series of allegations. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Lines of careful legal language add up to a devastating series of allegations against the three most prominent leaders of Hamas and Israel’s prime minister and defence minister. A panel of judges at the ICC now will consider whether to issue the arrest warrants. States signed up to the ICC statute would then be obliged to arrest the men if they had the chance. The 124 signatories do not include Russia, China and the US. Israel has not signed either. But the ICC has ruled that it does have legal authority to prosecute criminal acts in the war because the Palestinians are signatories. The ICC prosecutor alleges that Israel’s prime minister and defence minister committed crimes including starvation of civilians as a weapon of war, murder, extermination, and intentional attacks on civilians. If the arrest warrants are issued, it would mean that the head of Israel’s government, Benjamin Netanyahu, its longest-serving prime minister, would not be able to visit his Western allies without risking arrest. The one exception, all important for him, would be the United States. The same would apply to Yoav Gallant, Israel’s defence minister. The words he used when announcing that Israel would besiege Gaza have been frequently quoted by critics of Israel’s conduct. Two days after the Hamas attacks on 7 October Gallant said: "I have ordered a complete siege on the Gaza Strip. There will be no electricity, no food, no fuel, everything is closed… we are fighting human animals and we are acting accordingly. " The ICC’s prosecutor Karim Khan, who is a British King’s Counsel, writes in his statement that "Israel has intentionally and systematically deprived the civilian population in all parts of Gaza of objects indispensable to human survival". The war crimes that Khan says Hamas committed include extermination, murder, hostage-taking, rape and torture. Two of the accused Hamas leaders - Yahya Sinwar, the head of Hamas in Gaza, and Mohammed Deif, (referred to by the ICC as Mohammed al-Masri) the commander of the Hamas military wing, the Qassam Brigades - are believed to be hiding somewhere inside Gaza. Israel has been trying to kill them for the last seven months, so an arrest warrant does not add much to the pressures on them. But the other Hamas leader facing a warrant is Ismail Haniyeh, the head of the Hamas political bureau. He travels widely in the region and has meetings with senior Arab and Iranian leaders. Haniyeh is based in Qatar, which like Israel, did not sign the Rome Statute that set up the ICC. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 