 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 9303 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2023-12-06 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Renewed pressure on Israel as Gaza crisis worsens. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. Israel has been under renewed pressure to protect civilians in Gaza as it carries out its war against Hamas in the southern part of the territory. Notably, the country's main ally, the US, has said it should not repeat there what it did in the north, where its campaign destroyed entire neighbourhoods, killed thousands of people and displaced tens of thousands. The Israeli military says its attacks are more precise and that it has taken steps to alert the population. But the offensive has dramatically worsened Gaza's humanitarian crisis. Hospitals are overwhelmed with large numbers of casualties, many of them children, and doctors are having to operate with ever shrinking resources. As more people are forced to flee, many not for the first time, they are being pushed into smaller and smaller areas in the south. The designated shelters, already crowded, are unable to cope amid acute shortages of food and water, as just a fraction of the aid that is needed is entering Gaza. The UN agency for Palestinian refugees (UNRWA) said humanitarian assistance had been "reduced virtually to nothing", raising fears of widescale hunger and disease for Gaza's 2.2 million people. And, despite the pressure on Israel, it said it had seen "no recalibration" of the country’s tactics, describing a "barrage of attacks on residential and other civilian infrastructures", including hospitals, mosques, government buildings and schools across the territory. "The pattern of attacks that target or impact on civilian infrastructure raises serious concerns about Israel's compliance with international humanitarian law and significantly raises the risk of atrocity crimes," the agency said in a strongly worded statement. Israel has repeatedly said its actions are within international law and accuses Hamas of positioning its infrastructure in residential areas and using the population as human shields. As more civilians are killed and the suffering of those who survive gets worse, the Israeli military's actions will continue to be under scrutiny. UNRWA describes a "barrage of attacks" on civilian infrastructure. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 