 F-N-S-T-A-R-T. 9642 F-N-E-N-D.  D-A-T-E-S-T-A-R-T. 2024-04-08 D-A-T-E-E-N-D.  T-I-T-L-E-S-T-A-R-T. Israel changes tack in Gaza amid US pressure. T-I-T-L-E-E-N-D.  T-E-X-T-S-T-A-R-T. I think Israel’s military offensive is a bit stuck and has run into political issues with the US, particularly after that attack last week on the seven World Central Kitchen aid workers in Gaza. What the Israelis wanted to do was to go into Rafah - where there’s about a million and a half Palestinian civilians - and go after the remains of Hamas there. But the Americans have made it clear they don’t believe that Israel has a plan that will offer sufficient protection to civilians during that operation. So Israel has pulled the troops back while saying they will return to Rafah. At the same time, there are ceasefire talks and prisoner exchange talks going on in Cairo, presided over by the head of the CIA, the head of Egyptian intelligence, and the Qatari prime minister, and we know the Americans are trying to push very hard for a deal. There are various leaks and rumours coming out about those talks. But it may be - and this theory is one that is knocking around in Israeli media this morning - that pulling back from southern Gaza may be a standard operating procedure, or a little step, towards the Hamas position of Israel leaving Gaza completely, and therefore could be a help in the negotiations. Of course, Israel can continue to deliver air strikes into Gaza and I don’t think Israel's got any plans to pull out of Gaza entirely. Israeli forces have already cut Gaza in half, creating a buffer zone across the middle and building a base in the northern part. And they’re not letting Palestinians back into the north as far as we can tell. So it looks more likely to me that, rather than leaving Gaza, Israel may be moving away from having large forces manoeuvring through there, smashing everything in their path and killing an awful lot of people. And instead they are responding to their own tactical imperatives and the pressure from the Americans and turning it into more pinpoint raids like they do in the West Bank. Read more from Jeremy Bowen: Obstacles to peace seem larger than ever after six months of war. T-E-X-T-E-N-D. 